hello everyone I'm pleased to announce
my new tour for
2024 beginning in early February and
running through June Tammy and I an
assortment of special guests are going
to visit 51 cities in the US you can
find out more information about this on
my website
jordanbpeterson.com as well as accessing
all relevant ticketing information I'm
going to use the tour to walk through
some of the ideas I've been working on
my forthcoming book out November 2024 we
who wrestle with God I'm looking forward
to this I'm thrilled to be able to do it
again and I'll be pleased to see all of
you again soon
bye-bye you could take any somatic cell
in your body like a muscle a skin cell
and you can reprogram it using genetic
reprogramming to and turn it back into
an embryonic stem cell State that's so
to revert to an earlier form essentially
but we have to figure out and give it
the right signals so that you can heal
disease and that's what regenerative
medicine the promise of it is really
[Music]
about hello everyone so today I have the
opportunity to speak with Dr Adil Khan
Adil is a physician that I've worked
with he um offered Tammy and I a
treatment a couple of different
treatments um the treatment for her was
particular successful it helped her deal
with chronic osteoarthritic condition in
her forearms and was quite remarkably
successful and so that's very
interesting and it deals a young
Canadian physician very very sharp
character seems to be on The Cutting
Edge of the expanding field of
regenerative medicine which is what
would you say it's developing not
precisely in opposition to but in
parallel to standard allopathic medicine
that's more symptom based in its
approach so the regenerative Medical
types are attempting to get to the root
cause of chronic health problems and to
address them and so there's much Advance
being made on that front and so we're
going to talk through um the potential
of these new treatment protocols for
depression chronic pain degenerative
diseases like osteoarthritis multiple
sclerosis um fibromialgia and a variety
of chronic pain conditions we talk about
gene therapy um St cell usage and tissue
engineering so stay tuned if you're
concerned about your health and about
you know
living living happily and healthily and
even just living well thank you for
coming in Dr KH um you treated tamion a
while back and so maybe you could start
by telling everybody who's watching and
listening what you did and why and then
we'll talk a little bit about what you
do more generally and about who you are
and and the way we go yeah so in your
wife's case she had a very common issue
which is chronic pain chronic pain is
something that the medical industry has
grappled with for years and
traditionally they've used cortisone
which is an anti-inflammatory drug
they've used narcotics opioids and then
if that doesn't work surgery so what we
do is we identify that there's a gap
where people don't get better
necessarily with just Cortisone and
there and they don't always want surgery
and so this is kind of that gap of
patients who are just suffering or
living with chronic pain and taking pain
meds as we know Oxycontin and so many
other pain meds what they can lead to
with addiction and all these risks and
so what we do is what's called
regenerative medicine so we use
different types of regenerative
molecules whether that's stem cells PRP
exosomes which we'll talk about to
repair the tissue back to a previous
state so in your wife's case she had
what's called ostearthritis which is
degradation of the joint cartilage loss
and you get inflammation and then she
also had some small tears in the tendons
around the joints and it bothered her
for 10 years as you know and she
couldn't garden and she lost to Garden
so what we did is we used an ultrasound
as you saw and we go directly into the
tears and into the joint where the
inflammation is to repair the tissue
back to a previous state and so that's
how it got rid of her chronic when was
the ultrasound for diagnosis Diagnostic
and intervention and intervention yeah
so how does the ultrasound intervene
because it allows us to guide the needle
directly into the area of damage right
and how can you see what's damaged
because the ultrasound and that's the
skill so it's telling Gray from Gray
ultrasound and that's the steepest skill
set to give you an example I I treated
Muhammad olivar he's he's the guy who
owns the bur Khalifa and the six tallest
buildings in Dubai so he had a shoulder
issue for 15 20 years and he did an MRI
MRI was normal so they just did
cortisone they did physio was living
with chronic pain for 15 years and he's
arguably the most he's the wealthiest
man in Middle East and he's a very
well-renowned businessman so he has
access to any doctor in the world right
and so he found me and I flew down I did
an ultrasound and we did and we found
some small tears that were missed on MRI
and then we injected him similar to what
we did with Tammy and we fixed it but
it's the principle is the same which is
that sometimes you need to do diagnostic
Dynamic ultrasound to find the issue and
that's how did you learn to distinguish
as you said Gray from Gray and are the
AI image system getting good at that
we're training we're developing a
machine learning neural net to do that
but that hasn't been developed yet
that's actually something we're doing
because we're kind of set the standard
for it because my mentor Dr Anthony
Galia he was the first one in the world
to do this stuff he did it for Tiger
Woods Alex Rodriguez a lot of A-list
athletes so he was the one who taught me
all this and he was the one who
pioneered this field so I learned from
him and I was fortunate because I got to
learn from the best and because of that
I was able to kind of take it and
translate it into my own patients how
much exposure to image data did you have
to uh undertake in order to start to be
able to distinguish thousands of hours
thousands of yes it's it's not it's the
learning curve is so Steep and we have
ultrasonographers as if you remember I
brought her with me at the time who are
specially trained by us and they're the
ones who actually guide us because
there's so much Nuance between telling
what's a tear and what's not a tear that
you really need a specialist and
unfortunately most yeah and a really
trained specialist who actually knows
what they're doing I know there's huge
difference in Radiologists for example
in their diagnostic accuracy I know on
the AI front that they're they have
trained AI systems now from what I
understand to be able to be pretty good
at distinguishing like lung cancer
lesions for example yeah they're pretty
good at X-ray and cancer but muscular
scal is still a big gap and so that's
what we're developing because that's our
specialty is we're going to develop a
machine learning neural net using what's
called supervised and reinforcement
learning to teach to teach the machine
learning algorithm to detect what's a
tear and what's not a tear and then
guide the physician on how to do it so
that's kind of how we're going to scale
what we're doing and how how do you get
the data set set up properly because you
need a training if you're going to
reinforce the proper response you have
to be sure that the material that you're
training the machine on is actually
accurate how do you solve that problem
because we have a brilliant radiologist
on our team who's going to be training
the AI on what's not a tear and what's a
tear and then you have normal you you
have to first get 's more than one
radiologist no we're just going to use
the one who's specially trained by us
who does our msk interventions and
diagnos
and she's she's obviously exal at what
she does and she can train the AI to say
but the a needs thousands of normal
before it can recognize abnormal and
that's that's the data sets that you
have to build into it first and then she
has to train it over time to say hey
this is a tear and this is not a tear
and then eventually it learns right
right right right and what did you
inject Tammy with so we use something
called exosomes so the way I explain
exosomes imagine if you're if you're
going so let's talk about stem cells
first to explain exosomes so most people
have a intuitive concept of stem cells
they understand that they rebuild tissue
or they repair tissue so they can come
from umbilical cord they can come from
fat they can come from the bone marrow
they can come from amniotic fluid
there's so many different sources where
we can get them we use something
specifically called mazeno stem cells
which is just an embryological term to
explain their origin of where they're
being derived from and so and the reason
we use maeno is because they're easy to
access so for example the most easiest
place to access is after birth right
that you take the umbilical core tissue
or you take the amniotic fluid and you
can isolate the meenal stem cells or
stromal cells is technically the right
word uh but anyway most people call stem
cells but msse for short and so what you
do is you isolate those and then you can
grow them in a lab for three to Fours
why are they in umbilical cord tissue
why yeah because there's a is there just
a rich source of uh repair and
regeneration uh of the meenal stem cells
from that so meaning the umbilical cord
tissue is just rich in M's so why
they're rich in M's well I read that
that babies actually send stem cells
into their mother's body to help the
mother repair her own tissue right yeah
there is that mechanism built in so I I
think a lot of it it's probably that
cross talk between the placenta and the
mother right so I believe and the cool
thing is your body has stem cells too
right so and you have stem cells in your
bone barrel and in your fat
and they're basically cells that are
undifferentiated that can turn into any
tissue so there's different types of
stem cells if you have embryonic stem
cells which is from the fetus then they
can turn to any type of tissue but as
you know embryonic stem cells during the
bush era and everything it was
controversial right and what the reason
for that was because they were saying
are we going to be harming fetuses
obviously that becomes ethical issues
and so no one that never really took off
but L luckily we figured out hey wait a
minute we have something that's almost
as good as EMB stem cells not as good
but it's called plur poent meaning it
has ability to turn into many different
types of tissue but not every type of
tisue I see so they're slightly farther
down the developmental chain it's not
toti potent it's plur poent and so those
plur poent stem cells mazeno stem cells
are pretty ubiquitous you can you can
get them from Dental pulp you can get
them from fat uh umbilical umbilical C
we talked about bone Mar there's a lot
of different sources and so they're
easier to harvest and easier to source
and because of that accessibility that's
where the research really took off in
the last 10 to 15 years is with the MC's
so are there variants of cells like is
it a continual variant from the cells
that are omnipotent did you say the ones
that to poent toy poent that can turn
into anything and then there's the ones
that are what was the Nextel Flur potent
and do the do the toip poent cells turn
into the pur poent cells is that is that
the developmental sequence and then into
specific exactly yeah exactly yeah and
that's kind of how it it can
differentiate down the line and so the
difference between a stem cell and a
cancer cell so a cancer cell has some
similar properties because it can
essentially it loses the sign it or in a
sense it gets kind of hijacked and it
loses the ability to stop killing itself
so meaning it it it stops apoptosis so
it keeps replicating right and it has un
infinite amount it can keep going right
so right and and un differentiated to
some degree to and so that's why there's
actually something called cancer stem
cells and so if we can Target cancer
stem cells and stop that process so
there's that's an active area of
research so they not all stem cells are
good right because people think that's
the problem with stem cells
undifferentiated tissue in the wrong
place could be a real Le to tumor and Le
to tumor and and that's actually the
problem with embryonic stem cells too
they're too strong they have too much
stemness meaning they can keep
replicating and grow into tumors right
where whereas meenal stem cells they can
they have a finite ability to diff to
grow so they don't keep growing which is
why they're safe and so oh okay so when
we grow them Zeno stem cells the soup
that they grow in so imagine the how do
you say that maeno how do you spell it m
n c h y m a l yeah W it's going to take
me a while to get that one right yeah I
know it's an embryological term so just
call them M's MC's yeah so
msc's when they're grown imagine the M's
are the
chicken meat and the soup the broth is
the exosomes so the broth has all these
nutrients and cyto kindes in there but
there's no actual stem cells and why is
that important because those exosomes
can send all the signals which are the
proteins the cyto kindes and growth
factors to reduce inflammation and
repair tissue without the risk of having
cells which sometimes can not survive or
can cause reactions in certain people so
that's what used on Tam and that that's
that encourages the cells that are
already there to to what to to repair
them themselves what there grow it's a
signal it's a signal that says to your
body okay start repairing this tissue so
it send signals to your endogenous so
does it tell your does it essentially
signal to the body that something's
wrong it's uh sense to the bodies to
start healing and regenerative Pathways
right well I know that for example and
correct me if I'm wrong but part of the
reason that your face skin doesn't
repair itself when it wrinkles is
because your body doesn't actually note
that the damage has occurred and I know
that some of the therapies that
regenerat skin like intense pulse Light
Produce enough damage so that damage is
now signaled right your body has to
figure out so the cross linking that
occurs as a consequence of sun damage is
so subtle that it can accumulate across
time with no indication of damage and so
the exosome signal to the body that
something needs to be fixed exactly and
that's what this really is all about and
especially the first generation of stem
cells we'll talk about second generation
but first generation of stem cells is
really about paracrine signaling which
is basically signaling to the local
tissue hey there's something wrong here
start fixing it and that's that's really
what it is and so exomes in the case of
T's case they they send a signal to
reduce inflammation and then they send
growth factors to help repair and
regenerate the tear so and then you can
actually see if you do a followup
ultrasound which we do all the time that
the tissue is actually repaired and
regenerated can you do that systemically
yeah exactly so intravenous stem cells
or intravenous exosomes are being used a
lot for a variety of neurodegenerative
conditions autoimmune conditions chronic
pain chronic inflammation there's so
many different things are being done for
there's a recent trial done for
inflammatory bowel disease which is a
really terrible condition and right now
the only really medications are like
Methotrexate or amuno supressant
carnivore diet yeah carnivore diet it
does work actually yeah but not
everyone's gonna stick to it right it's
a hard diet and a lot of doctors don't
really know about it so they're not
going to recommend it to their patients
so patients have to self-educate right
and so instead of just suppressing your
immune system what the intervenous stem
cells do is they do what's called imuno
modulation so they actually reset or
repair your immune system from a
pro-inflammatory state to an
anti-inflammatory State and is that the
is that the exosomes or the stem cells
per se it's more the stem cells so stem
cells have a strong imuno modulatory
effect exosomes don't have a strong
imuno modulation so that's why you have
to do intravenous stem cells if you want
to treat something systemic autoimmune
conditions and and there's there's
trials that where patients have actually
gone into remission and that's
incredible to see because yeah you
you've treated Ms we have but Ms is much
more tricky because it's not just there
is an autoimmune component to it but
then there's also there's a lot of other
components to it with and that's where
it becomes you have to take a holistic
approach so the way we're going to treat
Ms which we're working on is we're going
to have the second generation of stem
cells so what that means is instead of
just using umbilical core stem cells we
create what are called Gene edited stem
cells so we can actually take so this is
this is what uh professor yamanaka in
Japan he won a Nobel Prize in 2014 uh
for what's called discovery of plur um
induced plur poent stem cells ipscs so
what he discovered was that you could
take any somatic cell in your body like
a muscle a skin cell and you can
reprogram it using genetic reprogramming
to and turn it back into an embryonic
stem cell State that's so to revert to
an earlier form essentially so I like to
call it the yamanaka stem cell and
basically it's a pretty crazy Discovery
if you think about it the fact that you
can your body has this almost innate
ability to go back to like a infant
State and but you just have to
overexpress certain transcription
factors to do that and so that Discovery
was pretty incredible you know the
immune system does that too is that when
it's when it's mutating when it's
adapting to the presence of a new virus
or a bacteria it'll produce more and
more accurate gripping mechanisms right
at the cellular level but it stores
representations of the ones that
were part of the developmental sequence
so we can imagine that that um um an
immune cell is trying to get purchase on
a bacteria it'll sort of go like this
first right it's it's not doing it very
well but it'll stick a bit and then
those what sticks a bit varies and then
it'll stick a bit better and then
that'll vary and then it'll stick a bit
better like that well then if the thing
mutates this grip might not work but
this one might and so that the is still
stored and if this one doesn't work well
this one might so it stores that that
developmental so there's more early
variability and less fine accuracy
there's a trade-off right between it
sounds like the same thing is happening
with the with the stem cells is that
they'll differentiate into their final
form which is specialized but that the
possibility for earlier forms with more
potential is reserved exactly yeah you
know the same thing seems to happen with
regards to junk DNA so I had a friend
tell me for example examp if you breed
fruit flies and you breed them so that
they don't have eyes you can do that you
can alter them genetically so they don't
have eyes and then you take the blind
fruit flies and you let them breed
amongst themselves for seven or eight
Generations the eyes will come back
because the The genome takes information
out of the junk DNA and rebuilds the
eyes and so even in the DNA itself there
seems to be additional information
stored so that the system can revert to
an earlier stage of development and then
progress forward again so and that's
that's really what I believe is you have
3.2 trillion cells or so in your body
and I believe they're working for you
but we have to figure out and give it
the right signals so that you can heal
disease and that's what regenerative
medicine the promise of it is really
about which is that we can use customize
cell and gene therapy to restore your
body back to a previous state and that's
the era we're finally in it took a while
to get here but that's but but you see
how there's all these interesting
almost Clues from from fruit flies from
the immune system that tell us that
maybe this is possible and now we're
just trying to put peace that together
using Next Generation Cell Therapy
Therapeutics so can you distinguish let
let let's speak more generally for a
moment if you can distinguish between
regenerative medicine per se and
medicine as it's commonly practiced and
it it sounds like the regenerative field
is much newer and you're obviously at
the Forefront of that but how do you
distinguish what you do from what
Physicians typically do well I think the
big the big narrative shift that's
hopefully going to happen is instead of
giving pills for chronic disease we want
to be giving cells and what that means
is we can make customized cells now to
treat chronic
disease traditional medicine's amazing
when it comes to acute care right if you
get a fracture you go to the hospital
phenomenal we're our surgeons are
amazing they're so good at that but when
when it comes to chronic disease
unfortunately we've been
told by regulatory bodies and by
guidelines that giving prescription
drugs is the best way to manage them and
the reality is those drugs don't really
treat the root cause they're just kind
of symptom symp maskers exactly and so
but now and it it was fair it was not an
unreasonable solution but now we're kind
of at this place where we actually have
real solutions to get people better
using these specific cell Therapies and
put them into remission or actually I
don't like to say cure but at least
remission right where where their
disease is controlled and so they don't
and they don't necessar have to be on
pain meds and so I think people need to
and this is I'll give an example like
lupus is a terrible condition and again
the only way they can traditionally
manage it is an it's an autoimmune
condition is usually some sort of
immunosuppressant and so which brings
with it all sorts of other risks like
chronic infection of other sorts exactly
and so many other risks with it and so
there was a trial done in Germany where
they used something called Gene edited
car te- cells so what they do is they
take your te- cells out of your body
they add a chimeric antigen receptor
which basically allows these te- cells
to hone in and kill B cells which become
hyperproliferative in lupus and so it's
called CD C9 it's just it's it's a
specific type of antigen that they add
on to the T receptor the gist of it is
that what it does is just makes it hone
in on the problem so it's it's really
it's really fascinating because you're
you're Gene editing these you're making
these bspoke cells almost that are
specifically designed to do a task and
these and these cells they actually put
everyone in the trial into remission and
and even even a year followup even
though their b b lympocytes went back up
patients were still doing well their
their symptoms didn't come back so that
just shows you the power of these
NextGen ration Therapeutics so is that a
widely used treatment now car car so CT
is approved by FDA however it's
$500,000 and why is it so expensive
because the pharmaceutical companies a
lot of them just unfortunately because
just patented and all this stuff they
just charge a lot of money and so what
we're doing is we're using our
technology which we can talk about to
create our own car T and hopefully offer
it at onet the price and that's that's
kind of the the goal that we want to
take because it's just it's it's not a
like very few people can afford that
obviously uh but the point is you can
make these customized cell therapies for
different chronic diseases and and
there's so many it's going to be
autoimmune conditions cancer and
everything in the next few years is
going to shift towards Gene and cell
therapy to actually cure people or put
them in remission as opposed to just
giving them pills for everything how far
along is regenerative medicine in
relation to the treatment of cancer so
carti is so a variant of kti is used for
different types of Leukemia and
lymphomas and it's successfully been
used for several years so that's one
type of genea cell therapy that's being
used and then there's also something
called natural killer cells which are
part of your innate immune system as as
a name suggests natural killers they go
there they kill things that don't belong
so what you can do now is you can
actually Gene edit those natural killer
cells with that car antigen I was
talking about so you can create
something called Carn K and that Carn K
with that antigen onto it can hone in
and kill the cancer so there's trials
being done now where they're using k enk
for different type of solid tumors as
well and so and the results are very
promising it's still early stages but to
get again this is where the I think
cross-cultural medicine becomes really
important so when I worked in Japan uh
earlier this year I learned that they've
been using these type of cell therapies
to treat cancer for over 10 years but in
in the US it's completely new so it just
shows you that there's this disconnect
why is there a 10year leg exactly so
it's it's it's a loaded question because
of the problem is there's the biggest
problem by far is regulatory bodies and
unfortunately the regulatory bodies in
North America are making it very
difficult for cell and Gene therapies to
be approved whereas in Japan they set a
framework it's called
pwda which is just a framework for reged
medicine regulation which started in
2014 so almost nine years so they
actually approved different type of cell
therapies n years ago whereas in the US
it's technically still illegal to do
certain stem
cells let me ask you this question are
you at peace with the Mindless screen
time you spend on your phone every day
are you gaining that higher quality of
life you know you desire if this sounds
familiar I have good news starting on
January 1st tens of thousands of men all
over the world will start 2024 with a
90-day journey together in search of a
more purposeful life it's called Exodus
90 and it was built to help men enjoy
the freedom of becoming who they were
truly made to be Exodus 90 guides you in
removing the attachments that are
holding you back from a better life and
it actually works independent research
shows that Exodus 90 men report
considerable shifts after the 90 days a
dramatic decrease in time spent on their
phones stronger satisfaction rates in
their marriages a more meaningful
relationship with God and true
brotherhoods of men on the same path for
the past 8 years Exodus 90 has helped
more than 100,000 men build their own
road map for living with virtue in a
culture that offers far too many paths
to self-destruction so is it time for
your Exodus we start January 1st find
resources to prepare for Exodus 90 at
Exodus 90.com Jordan that's Exodus
90.com Jordan to start your
journey so why do you think that is is
is it merely a matter of I mean 9 years
is long in terms of 9 years is a long
time if you happen to be suffering from
cancer but on a historical time frame
it's you know a blink in it's a blink in
time I mean obviously there's going to
be some resistance and lag in every
system to the introduction of new
Innovations and perhaps some of that's
useful because some Innovations cause a
lot more trouble than they solve but why
do you think it is that there is a lag
in the United States which is generally
a very Dynamic place with regard to
Innovation on the regenerative medicine
side compared to
Japan I think it has to do unfortunately
with the pharmaceutical companies
because a lot of of them have lobbyists
that influence seven for every member of
Congress and senator in in the US seven
lobbyists right so plenty and I think
they control
75% of mainstream television advertising
I think it's something like that and I
think it's actually higher for news
broadcasts per se and they actually
spend more money advertising to doctors
than they do to even consumers so then
doctors are inundated with these
pharmaceutical reps and with this
information and if you're if you're a
busy do doctors have really really
challenging lives as you I'm sure you
know and so they're busy working they're
in clinic they're trying to just help
their patients they don't really have
time to check everything that's going on
outside of in they don't have time to
travel they don't have time to look at
what's going on in the whole world Med
journals and they're not trained very
well to do that to begin with no they're
not and they're basically told what
they're what they're trained well to do
is follow guidelines and those
guidelines where do they come from from
Specialists who have industry sponsors
or TI
well it's a tricky business right
because the pharmaceutical companies are
within their proper purview to attempt
to educate Physicians about their new
products but drawing the line between
that and marketing per se and unethical
marketing is very very tricky and I mean
it's the same with regards to high
prices for novel medical interventions I
mean it can take a lot of time and money
to develop a new drug or a treatment and
it's not surprising at all that to begin
with its EXP expensive because
everything that's introduced into the
market to begin with that's novel is
expensive hopefully then it gets
widespread enough so the price starts to
come down I mean it's easy to Dam the
pharmaceutical companies and I'm highly
inclined to do that under certain
circumstances you know because I think I
don't know it seems to me that maybe a
line was crossed when the pharmaceutical
companies got the okay to advertise
directly to Consumers that seemed to
have warped the system pretty badly and
that was about 20 years ago if I
remember correctly I think they move
from from U what would you call it
scientific research Enterprises to
marketing machines at that point and and
it doesn't look to me like the
consequences of that were particularly
good so no and the the reality is that
if you're a physician most of your
continuing education comes from once a
year conferences that are given by
Specialists who are considered the top
in their field from institutions who are
usually have some sort of ties with
pharmaceu companies so where are you
getting your continuing education from
and it's really difficult for them to
get out of that system and so the only
reason I think I was able to get out of
that system was because I always looked
at prevention and I always looked at
finding cures or that's just the way I I
was taught because of functional
medicine and functional medicine is this
whole concept of trying to repair your
body and trying to heal it there's
before selling gene therapy a was just
focus on supplements lifestyle like you
you've obviously you know like carnivore
like those type of interventions can be
very powerful but there's no education
on the physician side on that stuff well
it's also hard to transform them into
something that generates profit and this
is you it's easy to be cynical about
that but that's actually a big problem I
mean I know there are a lot of
off-the-shelf pharmaceuticals that are
essentially free that can be used
effectively for treating various
conditions so there's a lithium I'm not
this is not medical advice by the way
for everyone watching listening but
there's a lithium variant called lithium
orate which is dirt cheap and has has
virtually no side effects that appears
to be reasonably effective in the
treatment of manic depressive disorder
and you can buy it on across the shelf
for virtually nothing and everyone asks
well why isn't this more widely known
and the answer is well if the chemical
is widely available and essentially free
and no one can generate a profit from it
no one has the incentive to Market it or
educate people about it right you see
the same thing for treatments like um
what's the what's the precursor to
precursor to serotonin five hydroxy trip
tryptamine five hydroxy tryptamine which
is a good precursor for serotonin it's
also extremely inexpensive and by all
appearan is relatively harmless and you
might say well why isn't it more widely
known and again it's the same problem if
there's no Market there's no impetus for
the distribution of the product or for
Education about it so they just fall by
the wayside and so it isn't merely a
matter of the profit hungry you know
vampires of the pharmaceutical industry
it's actually a very Troublesome
technical problem when you're making
dietary recommendations too it's like
well you know how do you do that and at
the same time or any form of prevention
for that matter it's hard to even get
credit for prevention right yeah you
know if you're very good at prevention
then the thing that you could be
rewarded for just never happens and so
that's great but but it's very difficult
to reward and to note so how did you get
interested in regenerative medicine and
and why did your educational pathway
diverge from the typical
physician before I went into med school
I was a personal trainer so as a
personal trainer my job was to get
people moving exercising and a lot of
times you actually see them come off
their medications diabetes high blood
pressure just by exercising so then
intuitively I knew I was like wait a
minute exercise can solve so many
chronic disease problems and then turns
out in the literature 80% of chronic
disease is is preventable right with
with lifestyle though it's very hard to
get people to make lifestyle ex and it
is so so that I was always fascinated by
that and so even in medical school I was
kind of like why aren't we learning more
about nutrition we had one lecture on
nutrition in all of medical school one
one and it was a can of it was probably
wrong it was wrong it was a can of food
it was a can of food guide oh great
which is which is what sponsored by
indust by dairy by you know we it's just
it's like you have to have grains like
it's it's just ridiculous but yeah but
during but but then what happened was I
got exposed to this whole like
alternative medicine world uh because
even though I was studying allopathic
medicine I was simultaneously studying
functional and integrated medicine
distinguish those for the people who are
watching allopathic so right so
allopathic medicine is traditional
medical doctor is you get a doctorate of
medicine and that's that's a traditional
you know drug based surgical based
interventions that we learned in medical
school so which is great learn disease
treatment disease treatment but then
functional medicine and intive medicine
is taking naturopathic stuff that's
evidence-based that has actual science
behind it and lifestyle measurements to
intervene and treat chronic disease so
you know I went I went to the Temple of
asclepius in Greece recently yeah it was
extremely interesting a very large
compound and at the Temple of asclepius
there were rooms where you could um you
they actually had people sit and dream
in rooms full of
snakes right and God only knows what the
what the reason for that was my daughter
used to have snakes as pets and she said
that she would often have nightmares as
a consequence of having the snakes in
her room and I suspect it had something
to do with their order so God only knows
what dreaming with snakes would produce
in terms of Visions but anyways there
was a place set up where you could have
a healing Vision but there were also
theaters and stadia there and places for
massage and for uh for saas essentially
like it was a compound that was devoted
to health that was
multi-dimensional right and so and there
were theaters there because part of the
healing process was drama and part of it
was exercise and part of it was vision
and when I went to that Temple I thought
these people were more sophisticated
than we are in their approach to disease
right because they were it wasn't merely
a matter of I know there are modern
medical Miracles and certainly surgical
bone setting and that kind of thing hip
replacements and so forth some of the
things that can be done are absolutely
miraculous but our notion of what
constitutes health and how to progress
towards it I don't think is it's
certainly not as sophisticated as what
the ancient Greeks managed at their
heights no and I believe in 30 years
we're going to look back on this era and
be like wow we did a lot wrong and the
reason is because just as I was saying
we're we we realize now that the system
is is broken uh the US spends more money
per GDP on capita than many developed
countries but they don't have better
Health outcomes and they're just
drowning in debt because of how much
their health expenditure is going up and
the reality is like you were saying
people aren't going to it's yes I think
I think the concept of people promoting
exercise health and healthy living is
great but the reality is it's really
hard to get people to change and the
environment is obesogenic meaning it's
set up let's be honest it's set up for
failure because of just the
accessibility of processed foods and the
way the envir massive calorie foods you
know and the
advertising 1500 in in in uh I think
Netherlands they banned direct to
Consumer advertising of sugar to
Children uh which is great that's a
great start and Japan I think did that
as well so there's there starting to be
finally this notion that hey process
refined foods like sugar is really
really bad for you and it can lead to
food addiction what are the Obesity
rates in the US is 40% I I mean I think
overall some states are higher than
others yeah yeah it's stunning it's
absolutely stunning and and and
catastrophic yeah so I think the reality
is it's going to be really really hard
to get people to change unless there's
huge policy changes which probably won't
happen anytime soon so what we're doing
is we're trying to build resiliency in
people's body so that they can get the
benefits of Healthy Living Without
necessarily doing Healthy Living so it
sounds kind of crazy but that's what
gene therapy is all about so well it's
kind of crazy except you know I mean
people people also handwave about the
pathology of pill taking but one of the
things you learn as a behavioral
psychologist perhaps above all else is
that behavioral changes are very very
difficult for people to make even what
you would think of as small changes and
everybody kind kind of knows this
because they have their New Year's
resolutions and they decide they're
going to go to the gym and they go for
like a week and then they quit and
people revert back to their old habits
and you might say well people should
behave better it would be better for
them but then you think well how often
do you take that advice for yourself and
so one of the things you learn as a
behavior therapist is to help people
make behavioral changes very gradually
and incrementally but that's very labor
intensive right and it's also difficult
for the people themselves to do
especially if you're dealing with
someone who imagined that they're quite
ill and they're in crisis maybe
economically not least as a consequence
of the illness then to ask them to make
a radical lifestyle change is maybe it's
even necessary but the probability that
they're going to do that on top of
everything else they're struggling with
is very very low so it's a tricky very
tricky thing to get it's called social
determinance of Health basically if
you're low socio economic status that's
the best predictor of Health long term
so if you're unfortunately if you're
poor and you don't have access to much
Capital then you're more likely to have
obesity more likely to have chronic
disease and then helping those
vulnerable populations you're going to
get cheap fast sources of calories so
how can you tell people yeah you just
need to exercise more and eat less it
doesn't make any sense so yeah well and
people also won't do that the the
literature on diet's pretty damn clear
is that if you put someone on a diet
that actually requires food restriction
so they're chronically hungry they may
diet successfully for a while lose some
weight but as soon as they stop dieting
they're going to revert not only back to
their original weight but generally gain
weight on top of that and so any diet it
seems to me that any diet that involves
protracted periods of hunger is actually
doomed to failure and that's what the
fitness industry promotes to people so
they're set them up for failure because
they see all these people online who are
doing these extreme diets but they're
doing it
a as a profession and B A lot of times
are enhanced using other things but so
the regular person sees those people and
then they wonder why it's so hard for
them well and those people are actually
specializing in doing that right because
they maybe they make a living doing it
so they can put the time of effort into
it one of the advantages of the of a
ketogenic diet or a Carnivor diet is
that you don't have to be hungry that's
a big deal because protein is very
satiated and you can eat as much as you
want so that's a that's a massive that's
a massive improvement over diets that
involve like chronic calorie restriction
because there there's no way that like
the other thing too you see people
develop Eating Disorders this way too is
like if you get in a fight with the
systems that mediate hunger you're going
to lose because those systems are very
very powerful when they're overactivated
and you see this with people with eating
disorders they get into a war with their
hypothalamus and like they don't no one
wins that war no you're going to be set
up for failure or you develop a very
unhealthy relationship with food yeah so
it's developing a healthy relationship
with food which means you're eating it
for nourishment and not for coping with
emotions or stress or so many other
reasons why people use food for and
developing that healthy relationship is
really what it takes a lot of therapy
actually and it takes a lot of work
which is cognitive behavioral therapy
right CBT and CBT is only one is one of
the few evidence-based therapies out
there to help people treat obesity right
and so but it's not but it's a lot of
work it is a lot of work and a lot of
attention a lot of strategic planning
it's expensive for that reason too EX
and time consuming on the part of the
people who are being treated so all
right so how did you now you said that
you worked as a personal trainer and so
you were already interested in lifestyle
modification and then you and how long
did you do that and and and why did you
decide to go to medical school so I was
basically doing that from undergrad like
for three four years and then I got into
medical school but the reason I decided
to go to medical school was mainly
because intellectual stimulation because
obviously being a personal trainer
there's only so much you can do and it
kind of becomes repetitive very quickly
and so I wanted to learn more about how
I can help and heal people and being a
doctor naturally seemed the best way to
do that but what I didn't realize was
when I went into medical school I was a
little bit disillusion because I realize
that a lot of these things just don't
resonate with my belief system which is
that I don't believe just giving pills
to people I just it just never resonated
with me and so I was always kind of
trying to learn more about how can I
actually get to the root of this and
that was just a question I always wanted
to ask myself I like I did like surgery
because surgery is very gratifying
because if you have a trauma if you have
someone you can you know you can fix
them you get them on their way and
they're done right so but but but then
you realize even in surgery most of what
you're treating is the end stage of
chronic disease like hip replacements is
ostearthritis like Opthalmology a lot of
it is cataracts and that's related to
diabetes and so many other surgical
Specialties are actually vascular like a
lot of just chronic vascular disease
heart disease like these are just end
stage of Lifestyle stuff and so the
reality is if you look at even most
surgical Specialties a lot of them are
just doing what could have been prevent
yes exactly mopa and so that's why I
ended up not going into surgery and then
I kind of got into this whole world of I
I I naturally because of personal
training I like sports medicine so then
that's where I went to sports medicine
with Dr Anthony Gallia and that's and
was that a was postmed school yes after
residency training after residency
training then you do sport medicine with
Dr Gia who's kind of the pioneer of the
platelet rich plasma injection yeah
sports medicine is the medical domain
that probably overlaps most with
cognitive behavioral therapy as it turns
out interesting yeah right well that
makes sense yeah and so interestingly
I've had yeah I've had professional uh
golfers I've treated using some uh we do
something called a Vegas nerve injection
which helps with their nervous system
but to help Performance Based anxiety so
but uh but anyway so when I went to
sports medicine I got to Dr Gallia and
and kind of the pioneer of platelet rich
plasma which is where you take your
blood you centrifuge it you concentrate
the platelets in the plasma and those
plat LS release growth factors that
stimulate healing this is kind of like a
lower version of the exomes we were
talking before if you to compare PRP to
exomes the cyto kind profile is about 10
times weaker PRP is the platelet which
so PRP is still good for like muscle
attendant Tears like acute injuries it's
not great for chronic tear wear and tear
it's so that's where exom stem cells
were more superior but when I work with
Dr Gallia obviously I got exposed to all
this kind of alternative stuff but then
I realized he's treating some of the
most high-profile people in the world
I'm like there must be a reason they're
coming to him so why would these people
who can go to any doctor right so is it
alternative or is it Cutting Edge
exactly exactly and that's and the media
used to PR it print it as though he's
you know some there's a lot of negative
stuff out there about him so it hard to
discern right it's like what's what's
really the truth and then you realize
quickly once you're in there some of the
most important people in the world come
see him and so I realized this he's
obviously doing something right and so
and then that's when I got into
regenerative medicine and regenerative
medicine PRP was a great starting point
but now it's evolved into cell and gene
therapy and tissue engineering how did
you learn to read the relevant
scientific
literature I had to just make Google
Scholar alerts and just for everything
regenerative medicine based and just
reading primary literature sources and
then just reading was that something you
did fundamentally on your own yes yeah
yeah because one of the correct me if
you think I'm wrong but one of the
things I I did a fair bit of research
with psychiatrists especially back at
Migel when I was when I was doing my PhD
um and one of the things I learned very
rapidly was that there was a big
difference between Physicians and
scientists in that so if you're trained
as a as a boulder model clinical
psychologist you're basically a research
scientist who does clinical work so
you're trained to evaluate the
scientific research you're trained to
learn how to do statistics and to
understand them and to write scientific
papers and to evaluate them and I
thought the same was true of Physicians
but it's but I soon discovered it wasn't
true at all and even the psychiatrists
that I did work with they often had
statisticians do their stats and I
thought that was so unbelievably well
you know even the peer-reviewed process
get do you know how that works the
doctors don't actually review the data
they just get they just get this primary
paper and that's and then no one vets it
to them right they just go through it
and they're just like yeah it looks good
yeah well it's very well it's it takes a
long time to learn to evaluate
scientific research it's not a this is
why I was wondering how you managed to
do it because it's a very intense
training process even to to to
understand the jargon that surrounds the
statistical analysis that's years of
work and now the medical literature is
doubling so fast in from 1900 to 1950 it
took 50 years for the medical knowledge
domain to double now it takes 73 days
it's 73 days for the medical knowledge
literature yeah I can believe that you
know I've been reviewing some of the
psychological literature pertaining just
recently to discuss sensitivity which is
a neurologically based uh partly
gastrointestinal partly emotional
response but it has implications for all
sorts of things you wouldn't expect so
for example um societies that
are um what would you say characterized
by higher levels of infectious illness
are much more likely to to have
authoritarian forms of local and
national government like way more likely
not a little bit there's a massive
connection between discust and
authoritarianism as it turns out anyways
I was reviewing that literature and I
haven't looked at it for you know five
years and I was just absolutely stunned
at the proliferation of new papers it is
essentially impossible to keep up and so
but it's also extremely exciting because
there is so much knowledge being
generated constantly that and so the big
the big I think the the key takeaway is
you have to be able to look at it from a
bird's eye view because there's too much
so you have to look at Trends and you
have to look at where is a science
headed and that's that's the tricky part
where that's for sure and the science
and that's the problem with current
medical uh system is that everyone's in
silos and then you have scientists and
you have doctors who are in their little
silos but they're not stepping back and
looking at hey where is medicine headed
and how can we take the best of what the
science is presented to us and bring it
into patientss because while we into
public policy exactly and so a lot of
that and there's a huge what's called a
clinical translation gap of 15 to 20
years so meaning that there's data out
there to support the use of certain
treatments but a lot of regular doctors
don't put it into their treatments for
15 to 20 years which is crazy right and
so patients aren't getting access to the
best treatments available and it's not
it's it's very unjust because a lot of
people are living with chronic disease
and suffering when there are options for
them and that's really what got me super
motivated to get into this field because
I saw people suffering with chronic pain
especially people don't realize how hard
it is to live with chronic pain is one
of the most challenging things it leads
to mental health issues it leads to
disability and in fact chronic muscular
scal conditions have a greater cost to
society than any other disease meaning
the total cost of there's billions and
billions of dollars because of misw work
days and because of the disability
burden heart disease kills more people
but quality of life and economic burden
of muscul scle is the highest so it's a
very important problem and that's why I
was so motivated to get into this field
because I saw these people not getting
better and and I've been able to help a
lot of people that no one was able to
help so I it's well let's talk about
that a little bit so when you when you
first see someone now you're the the
regenerative medicine practices that you
engage in that's an element an aspect of
Lifestyle medicine so you're looking at
sleep and exercise and stress a broad
sort of I would say a behavioral
analysis so how do you move from the
general behavioral analysis through the
diagnosis to to the recommendation of
the therapies that you can provide and
what ther like how do you step along
that how do you decide who's how do you
yeah well that's what I mean how do you
how do you lay out the diagnostic
process and determine what treatments
are appropriate if someone came to see
you what could they expect yeah no I
have a I have a team who are kind of
health coaches and biochemists who can
work with the nutrition and lifestyle
stuff so they try to optimize that as
much as possible but sometimes that's
not enough right and that's why they're
coming to me because they've already
tried the traditional things a lot of
them I've already seen multiple
Specialists and so the most common thing
I see by far is ostearthritis right
osteitis is just like we're talking
about it's cartilage wear and tear it's
chronic inflammation but now we realize
that ostearthritis isn't just chronic
inflammation there's there's all these
Hallmarks of Aging there's 10 Hallmarks
of Aging as and as you probably know
aging and Longevity is a huge Hot Topic
because if we can cure aging we can
pretty much treat almost all chronic
disease because they all have the same
same 10 Hallmarks so I'll list a few of
them genomic instability mitochondrial
dysfunction loss of proteostasis stem
proteostasis which is protein regulation
like homeostasis of protein regulation
and those Pro you get malfunction of
proteins and they build up and that can
lead to cell dysfunction and then
there's also like uh stem cell
exhaustion chronic inflammation and
inessence there's all these different
Hallmarks so there's about 10 of them
and now we realize those 10 Hallmarks of
agent aging actually govern most chronic
diseases so even ostearthritis what
happens is those condra sites which are
the cells that line the joints they
become they have all these different
Hallmarks of Aging so they get they get
those epigenetic alterations so
mitochondria start becom dysfunctional
all those things start happening at a
cellular level which can happen years
before the doctor picks it up right sure
and so that's part of the problem well I
know with uh with neurological
conditions often you don't see any overt
symptoms till 95% of the underlying
tissue is being destroyed and so that's
why Diagnostics is becoming Advanced too
in fact they're using exomes which are
can be a biomarker for a lot of these
diseases because these cells start
releasing these different biomarkers and
you can detect them using exome
technology so it's becoming and even the
Diagnostics is really far behind now in
traditional medicine because they're not
doing any of this stuff but anyway so to
the point so if you have someone let's
say a knee that's really bad Osteo like
stage four they want to they've been
told by the regular doctor they want to
get a knee replacement and they they
want a second opinion so that's usually
why they come to me and they want to
look at the Alternatives and they've
tried you know the lifestyle stuff and
so what we do is we assess we assess
their x-ray MRI we do an ultrasound
examination and then we see if they're
an appropriate candidate for our
procedure and the way we do that is
based off MRIs so you have to have you
have to have characteristic findings for
example like bone edema which is
inflammation in the bone that's
something we can Target and treat with
stem cells because they're very
anti-inflammatory and then we also have
to make sure their bone isn't to deform
so for example because there's and this
is a problem with my field if you Google
regenerative medicine doctor there's a
thousand of them in the US and and
there's so many of them not doing things
properly and the problem is because of
the lack because there is almost a black
market where there is a lot of people
doing it illegally in the US because the
FDA can't keep up with shutting down all
these clinics there are so many stem
cell clinics even though stem cells are
technically illegal in the US so it's
it's become a weird place because it's
hard for patients to kind of figure out
who's actually telling the truth and
who's just selling them a pie a lie and
that's and that's the biggest problem
with the whole stem
you see the same thing with plastic
surgery exactly exactly it's the exact
same thing and yeah well it's a Pito
distribution problem which is that in
every field only a tiny minority of
people actually know what they're doing
right right so you always have a signal
to noise detection problem is like who
are the people who actually and then of
course often the people who don't know
what they're doing genuinely think they
know what they're doing tricky
absolutely it's really problematic yeah
and that's that's exactly what happens
and so why should people trust you
because I'm a Canadian physician and in
Canada we were never taught about money
we were never taught
about the business side we always taught
about Patients First and making them
better and I think that's being on the
global stage as I am now we I'm
traveling I'm treating people around the
world my focus is never on the monetary
stuff and I I always focused on treating
the patients first yes some of the
treatments are expensive and that's just
because the market price is expensive
but as we talked about earlier anytime
there's a new technology over time the
price is going to come down and there's
always going to be early adopters and
over time we want this to be accessible
to the average person in fact we want it
to be covered by insurance which in
Japan it is so if Japan's doing that
already I think eventually there's going
to be an impetus for this stuff to move
over here it's just going to take time
yeah but yeah I think that's because I
went into medicine generally to make a
difference and help people that's always
been my motivation it has never been
anything anything more I I and and and
the big thing too is honestly if a lot
of patients who see me they they can
tell I'm pretty like I'm honest and I'm
transparent and I don't promise the moon
like there's certain things that we can
fix certain things that we can't fix
stem cells aren't a magical cure for
everything but the next generation of
cell therapy like we were talking about
like the Gen a Cell Therapy that really
will be allowing us for custom cell
lines for almost every medical condition
like diabetes cancer dementia there's
Parkinson's disease there's a clinical
trial done this year those ipscs I was
talking about earlier and they are ipscs
are the induced PL potent stem cells the
yamanaka stem cells so they created what
are called ipsc dopamine producing
neurons oh yeah and then they transplant
them surgically into the areas where
they lose those dopamine neurons and
then they did a one-year followup and
all so many of the patients basically go
into remiss their symptoms get so much
better and they actually regrow new
neurons that produce dopamine this was a
Blue Rock therapeutic clinical trial so
this shows the power of ipscs and this
is just the beginning of Ip this is what
I'm going to call the ipsc revolution
there's going to be so many different
ipsc cell lines that are going to allow
us to treat specifical medical
conditions so in the future people will
think about cells to treat their
conditions as opposed to pills let's go
back to osteoarthritis because that's a
very interesting place to dive into
because generally once people have when
when people have rheumatoid arthritis
and use anti-inflammatories you can slow
down the degenerative process but often
when you see people in late stages of
osteoarthritis they've already suffered
a tremendous amount of loss of cartilage
for example and so you evaluate people
using MRI and you said there are there
are times when their joint damage is too
far gone for you to be able to intervene
but so
what at what level of severity can you
intervene and what sort of what sort of
responses have you seen and how widely
generalizable is that yeah it's so even
for so there's four kind of stages of
Osteo thetis so we can even treat stage
three stage four which is the more
advanced one as long as their bone like
I was saying earlier if their bone is
actually deformed where they need some
sort of alignment or corrective where
the problem is mechanical if it's
mechanical then stem cells aren't going
to fix that right they need some sort of
surgical correction so but if it's more
inflammatory base or if it's more uh
based off like toell dysfunction we're
talking about then that's something stem
cells work really well for so for
example people who have chronic daily
pain pain at night pain is it's
affecting them all the time that's very
inflammatory base and that's where stem
cells work really well for and even MRI
we can correlate if they have
inflammation in the bone then we have a
specific Target so it's very it is
generalizable because if we have
patients like that we know it's going to
work Co so it brings down the
inflammation and it and it can help to
regrow a little bit of cartilage but
this is the first generation of stem
cells which are the umbilical core stem
cells now we're transitioning over the
next six months actually we just
licensed it that we just have this
technology now it's a second generation
of St cells so they're the yamanaka stem
cells but specifically for ostearthritis
so they're they're the ipsc drived msc's
so they're meenal stem cells but they're
ipsc derived and they're Gene edited to
overexpress certain transcription
factors to Target osteitis so how see
how specific the cells are getting is
becoming a really cool technology
because it's not just like okay stem
cells it's like no this is a very
specific ipsc derived MSC product for
osteoarthritis so that's the era we're
in now so you can treat muscle tears and
damage and tendon tears and damage and
you can treat osteoarthritis what other
what other conditions do people suffer
and come to you for that you you have
had success in treating I've had I get a
lot of so because of the online world I
get patients from all over the world and
most of them are chronic complex
conditions so a lot of them are like
fibromyalgia which is just like chronic
pain everywhere there's chronic fatigue
syndrome there's people with toxic mold
who don't get better there's people with
rheumatoid arthritis who just have
chronic inflammation and joint pain
everywhere and they've tried all the
meds inflammatory bowel disease so we're
getting a lot of chronic complex
conditions and now we're building out a
team of Specialists so so these are
long-term systemic dysfunctions exactly
and so it's about restoring your immune
system and getting it to be functional
again and that's kind of what we can do
with the combination of the systemic
intravenous stem cells and with the
different and different peptide
protocols we have and even we're now
we're Manufacturing and we have our own
what are called FAL microbial transplant
pills fmt pills but basically fmt as you
know is to repopulate the good gut
bacteria and the gut is where most of
your immune system is stored and that so
if we can restore the immune system we
can treat a lot of chronic diseases even
even Parkinson's so tell me what you're
doing with those with those so we have
our own process to manufacture fmt we
have a human microbiome is this in
Canada uh no Mexico in Mexico so we have
a manufacturing plant there that's where
we do stem cell manufa are you are you
is that product available already it'll
be available in the next few months oh
so and so our scientist her name is Dr
Caroline gabis great PhD human
microbiome specialist and this is her
specialty and she has her own
proprietary process on how to
manufacture these pills select for the
donors and give them to patients and the
Beautiful part about these treatments
are only one week long and they can have
a huge impact on your body and who who
do the feal transplant pills work best
for so you can use them for even
anti-aging and Longevity because in mice
fmt has been shown to extend Lipan by
30% so I think there's G to be a lot of
people who are just going to use it for
long and that's a consequence of gut
biod proliferation because the gut
microbes produce so many different
metabolites and help with process so
many different cellular processes
they're not just that can be used post
antibiotic treatment as well right yes
and so we're we're going to make so
we're going to make one for children as
well because a lot of Toddlers and a lot
of young kids unfortunately get
antibiotics like crazy they and there's
actually well in in cesarian birth
actually is a problem right do you want
to explain that yeah because you don't
get exposed to the vaginal Flora which
is the bacteria so
I recommend anyone who gets a C-section
just take the stuff down there after
your baby's born and rub it on their
face right and just get them that
exposure to the good bacteria so the
reason is because that's a good example
of just how Bloody complex things are
who the hell would have ever guessed
that a cesarian birth would cause
postbirth trouble years later because
there there wasn't the proper trip
through the vaginal Canal man that's
unbelievably complicated it is and
that's why what but what we got to learn
are principles what's the principle of
of the human body immune dysfunction is
one of the most important principles
that governs so many different chronic
diseases so if we if we can train your
immune system properly at a young age I
always say like your immune system is
like a teenager if you don't train it
properly it's going to misbehave when
you're older so now we're learning how
to train it properly which means you
have to get exposure to certain bacteria
you have to be played with pets you have
to play with soil you can't be afraid of
germs when you're young because that
actually leads to more issues older and
antibotics much clean cleanliness too
much cleanliness and we know that
antibiotics for every antibiotic course
that children take it increases their
risk of autoimmune disease by 1% so it
can become accumulative that right yeah
and so it become it it was um NIH
research that's interesting because I
was chronically treated with antibiotics
for recurrent uh tonsilitis right
probably 20
times so and I I I think a pro and and
we talked about the beginning of an
interview what we did for you I think
you have a component of immune
dysfunction which is why we're going to
be doing these different different cell
therapies to get your immune system
functioning again and get you out of
this chronic pro-inflammatory state now
you've also treated depression yeah yeah
so let's talk about that a little bit
because the first thing people who are
watching and listening should understand
is that there isn't any such thing as
depression there are multiple medical
and physical conditions that produce
decrement in mood and some of those are
lifestyle Associated and some of them
are a consequence of not having a
functional life and some of them are
pure consequ quences of physiological uh
Mal malfunction so there's a lot of
evidence for example that chronic
depression is an inflammatory condition
and there is evidence as well that part
of the reason that ssris work is not
directly because of their neurochemical
consequences so on serotonin function
but because they're actually
anti-inflammatory right and there's a
big that's statins too by the way oh
yeah oh oh so no I don't know that so
statins for people who don't know are
cholesterol lowering drugs but the
reason they actually have an effect on
mortality we believe is because they
reduce
inflammation uhhuh so what's the
underlying cause chronic inflammation
where does that come from chronic immune
dysfunction and where does that come
from your gut right well there's a huge
overlap too between depression and
immunological problems and so okay so
what have you done with regard
specifically to the treatment of
so-called depression so let's come back
to the fundamental principles of what
causes depression from a cellular level
it's neuroin
there are some chemical imbalances and
then there's a gut brain access you have
more serotonin receptors in your gut
than you do in your brain right and so
it's looking at this from a holistic
approach and so for me as an
Interventional
physician what we can do is we can
reduce neural inflammation by using
intravenous exosomes they cross the
blood brain barrier they reduce
inflammation in the brain and then we
can also help with the nervous system
what are symptoms of brain inflammation
what how what every neuros if you look
at this data out there with if you go to
the literature almost every
Neuropsychiatric disorder is linked to
neuroinflammation it's it's hand in hand
it's almost kind of like autoimmune
conditions and intestinal permeability
or leaky gut right you've heard of leaky
gut it's I know there's Michaela
interviewed a psychiatrist at um what's
the big hospital mlan mlan in Boston
who's been using dietary manipulations
to treat like schizo effective disorder
and I think it's very probable that the
really catastrophic neuros psychiatric
diseases like schizo effective disorder
or schizophrenia we're going to find out
they have a physiological basis exactly
and so we're starting to learn
depression to manic depression exactly
and so we're starting to learn about
those physiological basis and that's
what we intervene on so the way we do
that is reducing neuroinflammation and
that's with exosome treatment primarily
intervenous exosomes and then what we do
because we know so many mental health
disorders are rooted in unresolved
emotional trauma and a lot of that comes
from do you know Paul kti no he's a
psychiatrist he wrote a book about this
but he talks about how many depressive
and anxiety disorders are rooted in this
unresolved emotional Trauma from
childhood and they and sometimes it's in
the unconscious mind and they don't even
know it and so what we do
interventionally based is we actually do
something called the Stell ganglion
block and inject into the vas nerve
because the stellic ganglion inates into
your sympathetic nervous system and a
lot of times your sympathetic nervous
system over exactly it's over that's
chronic chronic flight exactly and
that's also because of that unresolved
emotional trauma and then the Vegas
nerve the Vegas nerve is kind of this
master nerve regulator of your Paras
sympathetic nervous system and that's
the one that helps you to relax and calm
down but a lot of people what that
happens in neuros psychiatric disorders
is they can't relax they they're just
they're just jittery they're just
irritable you tell them to relax it's
like telling it's like telling an obese
person to stop eating to eat less or
someone on cocaine exactly it just it's
not helpful so it's it's just telling
people who are anxious and depressed to
relax is is not helpful and so what we
do is we're trying to intervene and so
what we actually inject directly into
the Stell gang we inject some called
peptides and anesthetic which calms it
down and then into the veg nerve we
inject peptides and actually some
exosomes which help to remodulate the
signaling of the Vegas nerve so this can
have a tra dramatic effect on their
nervous system make them more calm make
them more resilient and deal with stress
better and just make their bodies so you
you help with parasympathetic activation
exactly and so I have a diagnostic
question for you yeah one of the things
I noticed when I was practicing as a
clinician in concert with phys Ians who
were prescribing ssris I mean I I had
clients who showed like a miraculous
response to ssris upon occasion where
they would be chronically depressed for
months or even for years and they'd
start a course of anti-depressants and
if they were fortunate their symptoms
would remit in like well between three
days and a month and it's not supposed
to remit that quickly yeah but but
there's a neurochemical effect as well
as the neurophysiological effect but
here's one of the things I noticed I
want I want you to tell me what you
think about this so as we already
discussed there's a lot of different
disorders in the depression bin and one
of the things I would do with my clients
is do an evaluation of their of the
dimensions of their life so imagine this
um are do you have a long-term partner
do you have friends do you have a job
that you enjoy or that at least is
functional and providing for you you
know economically um are you do you have
plans for your education do you take
care of yourself physically do you have
an alcohol or drug or other like abuse
problem Etc so multi-dimensional
analysis of functionality along all
these different uh well dimensions of
life now now and then I'd have a client
who had no problem with any of those but
was
depressed right and those were often
people who showed a stellar response to
an anti-depressant as opposed to the
people who well they didn't have a
partner they didn't have any friends
they didn't have like their life was
just an absolute bloody catastrophe then
you could imagine two different forms of
depression there's many different forms
but two classic forms one would be
you're not depressed your life is an
absolute shambles and you're miserable
because nothing you're doing is working
and then there's another person that's
like oh no like you work hard you're
well educated you have goals you have a
partner you love you have friends but
your mood is just absolutely
disregulated you're worse in the morning
something's wrong with those people
physiologically so I'm wondering if when
you do your diagn notic process if you
look at could because I could imagine
that there's a subset of people whose
lives are in functional order but are
suffering dreadfully for whom a
physiological intervention like exosomes
would work particularly well and those
are the ones we're primarily treating
yeah okay and okay and so why are those
the ones that you're primarily treating
is that just the people who end up
coming I going to say I think it's just
selection by yeah probably probably I
think the people who seek me out are
generally those type of people un they
have the wherewithal to do it exactly
unfortunately the people in the other
category probably don't even know I
exist right because they're just going
to their family doctor and they're just
that and that's the means that's all
they have yeah well of course the case
if you have a chronic illness long
enough it's going to start to affect
your function and all these other
dimensions of life too so it's not a
clean cut but I often think too that the
research literature pertaining to the
effectiveness of anti-depressants would
be a lot cleaner if the diagnostic
categories were set up properly it's
like well are you depressed which means
that your life is fun but your mood is
disregulated or are you just merely
suffering the consequences of having an
absolutely disregulated life there's no
way that a pharmaceutical intervention
is going to fix that I mean I did see
some of my more seriously affected
clients on the behavioral side now and
then they'd take an anti-depressant and
it would decrease the probability they
would commit suicide which isn't nothing
and maybe it would help them a little
bit Garner enough energy to start to
improve some of the things they could
improve but it it couldn't be a Magic
Bullet because an anti-depressant isn't
going to give you a life partner for
example no and it for us it's about
restoring the cellular processes as much
as possible so they have resiliency to
deal with the life that's yes yes and
that that's why we take this approach
and so we were talking earlier and
because the intervention that we're
doing is so powerful we actually have
the Canadian military wanting to cover
this for their veterans and that was for
for specifically which treatment for the
Vegas nerve and the Stell ganglion block
the
because I'll to it no it's a i me for me
it's a minute procedure I've done
hundreds of them and it can have such a
big impact I'll give you an what do
people give an examp so I had I had a
special forces operative he has a world
record for the longest sniper in the
world he's 3.2 kmers which is crazy so
he's but he's but he's so he's a high
level special force operative in Canada
his
mid-40s really really bad PTSD to a
point that he tried every medication
tried every psychiatrist psychologist
and he was basically told that you can
do maid which is been medically assisted
Su suicide essentially right uh in
Canada that's now allowed and oh even
recommended it's it's honestly it was
heartbreaking because he has four
children and the fact that this was the
only option that our government is
giving to him was really it just made me
devastated and so I actually wasn't even
into mental I mean I'm a sports do by TR
so I this was actually one of my you
know one of my friends uh friends so I
so he asked me is there anything I can
do and so that's how I started getting
into this whole Interventional mental
health stuff and so that's how I came
across the these procedures and I talked
to some of my friends in the states and
so he came down we did the procedure for
him the Stell gangon and then the Vegas
and what do you do to do that exactly so
yeah so we use so in the Stell gangon
we're injecting something called
bupivacaine which is an anesthetic and
we mix it with certain peptides and what
the combination of peptides and sengan
do is they suppress that sympathetic
overdrive and then the Vegas nerve we
inject some exosomes and peptides and
what that does is it modulates the veg
and so you do both of those at the same
time at the same time oh yeah and then
and then we do usually we try to do dual
we do both sides oh yeah and so
afterwards he said like he literally
said a weight have been lifted off his
shoulders and he started crying wow oh
yeah it was the most dramatic thing I've
ever seen I don't say this happens to
every he cry how long yeah 10 15 minutes
with his wife was there too and he just
said he he was and he he he gave me um a
coin which they usually don't give to
anyone who's not in the military so that
was like a huge honor for me and I felt
I just felt very privileged to help
someone like this it was that fast it
was that fast and now he's doing pretty
good he's he's back to playing hockey
he's play feeling better he's just it
just it's it's it's hard to explain
because there's so much emotional
baggage and unconscious reservoir of
these different traumas that are built
inside of your body
I think they they lock themselves into
something like a positive feedback loop
e yeah because like what once you get
anxious to a certain point every little
thing makes you more anxious right and
then you can start to become anxious
about the anxiety itself and it like I
actually think that most of the things
that we regard as psychiatric disorders
are positive feedback loops that have
gone out of control so for example let's
say your mood starts to fall and then
you isolate right and then you start
performing worse at work well
obviously if your mood is low and you
isolate and you're performing worse at
work your mood is going to get lower and
then you're going to isolate more and so
it Loops yeah with with u panic disorder
what happens is people get anxious right
but then they start to avoid and that
makes their anxiety worse and so then
they're in a loop and with alcoholism
what happens to people is they start to
see that if they drink it cures their
hangover well that's obviously that's
going to generate a positive feedback
loop and so many of the things that we
see as conditions I think are positive
feedback loops that have that are self-
sustaining and inspiring so for us
creating an intervention that breaks
that spiral positive feedback loop yeah
yeah yeah so how many people have been
treated with this with this particular
treatment at this point I've done
hundreds including panic attacks for
young girls like it's been it's been
incredible to see the changes that one
intervention can have on people is it
for everyone no but there are a lot of
people it can help yeah and so how how
do you decide who can be help and who
like what are your inclusion and
exclusion criteria for the treatment I
mean the biggest thing is a lot of them
if they say yes to have you heard of um
gabber mate yeah yeah so his like Ace
you know Aces adverse childhood events
he has this questionnaire so a lot of
them if they're positive to that that's
given me an indication that they have
some sort of unresolved childhood trauma
and almost I would say it's crazy almost
90% of them say yes it's so many of them
have these issues that they've just kind
of buried in the past and they're
dealing with depression or anxiety but
they actually have something that
triggered that maybe when they were
younger so that's a good indication that
classic Freudian analysis yes so that to
me is a big indication that this these
treatments will work and for a lot of
people who just have anxiety it can be
very helpful too so like panic attacks
or low stress resilience and day-to-day
irritability then that's an indication
where they just need you ever do
personality assessment on your
clients well here's something this would
be a very good thing to do on the
research end of things is that before
before you do your intervention have
them do a Big Five personality inventory
and then have them do it 6 months later
and see if you get decreases in trait
neuroticism right yeah right because if
you did that would be absolutely
fascinating if you could actually we are
going to start a trial so I will include
that because you bet use the big five
aspect scale because it gives you more
differentiated analysis but if you could
show that you could decrease trait
neuroticism with a physiological
treatment like that that would be a
major that would be a major Discovery
yeah no I think that's great so what
we're that's a resilience measure
essentially right an emotional
resilience and I get that feedback all
the time my patients say that I have
more resiliency what used to stress them
out doesn't stress them out anymore and
so I see that anecdotally so it'd be
great to quantify that absolutely well
and it would be quite the miracle if you
could produce a transformation in a in a
personality trait because neuroticism is
actually very stable right right and so
and very difficult well difficult to
amarate goes along with stable but you
know there is there is uh there are um
other indications that such things are
possible so for example a single dose of
psilocybin that produces a mystical
experience produces I believe it's a
half standard no it's a one standard
deviation increase in trade openness a
year later that's permanent exactly
right one standard deviation we you just
well you just took the words out of my
mouth because I was going to say we call
this procedure the vshot the Vegas Nerf
shot and basically we combine it with
psilocybin assisted therapy a macro do
and so that combination is so power ful
to kind of reset their which do you do
first uh we usually do this first and
then send them off to therapy afterwards
this the cybin therapy no we do our
injection first calm down the nervous
system and then afterwards they go off
to therapy and do cocy yeah so they do
the they do the the physiological
intervention that decreases stress
reactivity first right so that would
also increase the probability that the
experience they have with a
hallucinogenic would be positive because
their nervous systems are calmed down
right because set matters right so if
you're in an anxious state and you take
a hallucinogenic the probability that
that state will be magnified into
something approximating a bad trip is
very high yeah and so we wanted we're
going to start a hopefully a phase one
trial sometime next year for this
intervention so we can actually get some
real data behind it yeah yeah use the
big five use the big five right that's
great that's really powerful because if
you get big five aspect scale right no
that makes perfect sense yeah yeah well
that would be really remarkable if you
could manage that all right so you and
what sort of what sort of effects have
you seen with the people that you've
treated for depression so you talked
about anxiety more specifically so yeah
no uh depression I think I think the big
thing with that is combining it with
that some sort of psilocybin or some
sort of psychedelic assisted therapy and
the combination of that with everything
else that we do has been great and so it
can help people who are even like I like
that veteran I was saying who was PTSD
who was suicidal and it it shifted him
from not being suicidal anymore to
basically not being suicidal he was just
it actually changed his life and
it's been super impactful on people like
that but but he's also the right
candidate because he has severe PTSD and
because of that PTSD and he has a life
and he has a life he has a wife he has
kids he has all that other stuff so it
may not be for everyone but I think
there are a lot of people who fall into
that category where they have this
trauma and they have these issues that
they haven't dealt with and they need
this intervention can actually make a
big difference on their life and how do
you protect yourself against over like
you know people say anecdotes are not
data and that always bothers me because
anecdotes might not be data but they are
they are definitely hypotheses yes right
so but how do you protect yourself
against overinterpreting the positive
consequences of your interventions as a
consequence of this plethora of
anecdotal information that you are
receiving I mean for me it's all about
getting the patient it's all about
clinical outcomes as a doctor my job is
to improve my patients health or quality
of life and to at the end of the day if
they're feeling better and they're
getting then they tell me that that to
me is what matters the most and the way
I achieve that often is multimodal
meaning that you have to use multiple
interventions and the problem with
traditional randomized control trials is
they only want to look at really one
intervention for one that's not how the
body always works well it's also a it's
also a conflict with the immediate
necessity of medical treatment right
because it's lovely if you can just
change one thing but if you're dealing
with people who are absolutely bloody
desperate you're going to be tempted to
throw you know everything and and the
kitchen sink out them and that's the
reality of the patients I see they're
refractory to the traditional medical
system so they're looking for
Alternatives so it's not it's not often
just one intervention I often have to do
multiple things to get them better and
that's why the trials we're going to be
doing are going to be we multimodal
we're going to have multiple things that
we're using to intervene and when you
say trials like are these actual
research trials clinical trials yeah so
for example we
already uh we're starting um a clinical
trial for pH a phase two trial for a
gene therapy uh which we haven't talked
about yet but uh but basically we're
going to be looking at it's called fosta
and gene therapy so it's basically the
world's first reversible plasma gene
therapy so traditionally viral vectors
were used for introducing a foreign gene
into your body but what we've developed
is a plasmid which is just a circular
strand of DNA it comes from eoli but
there's no actual live bacteria in there
and the plasmid the beautiful part about
the plasmid is is it can Target any
protein or peptide up to 10,000 base
pairs with 100% accuracy and it's what
do you mean by Target what does it do
exactly so meaning it can tell your body
to whatever Gene of interest to produce
more of that so for example whatever
Gene of Interest yes oh yeah that's
promising yes it's very promising and
it's it's what's called an episomal
Vector so it's non-integrating so it's
not going to go into your genome and
make you like translocate or have those
risks that viruses may have and it's
also because it's not a virus you don't
have to take amuno supressant it's not
immunogenic so there's all these cool
benefits to it so so is it temporary it
lasts and that's the beautiful part it's
it's reversible because it's eoli origin
so you can take a tetrac cycling if you
want it out of your body so it has that
safety mechanism and it last for about
one and a half to two years so so you
can repeat it as needed whereas vile
vectors you cannot repeat them once you
do them you do them and you can't really
get them out of your body so so this
technology is really beautiful and we
did our phase one already so we're doing
our phase two targeting what conditions
so sarcopenia because and what is that
that's a loss of muscle as you get older
which is which is which is probably the
biggest driver of Aging because as you
lose muscle your body to protect itself
and regulate your immune system and
vitality goes down you become frail and
that Frailty we know is such a big
predictor of mortality and This falls
falls and even in uh covid studies they
found that people who had more muscle
mass had better El well you know one of
the best predictors of lifespan is grip
strength exactly yeah yeah which is
quite remarkable a proxy right and yeah
it's a proxy for muscular integ
Integrity essentially yeah and so if you
look at it if we can preserve muscle
that can be one of the best ways to have
that's a huge deal exactly so fat so
fallatin is a peptide that's naturally
made in your body and as you get older
your fallatin levels decrease and so
what we're doing is we're just
delivering this through a gene therapy
form the plasma vector and it increases
your F Statin levels for one and a half
to two years and it's completely
reversible if you want to have your body
for whatever reason and it wears off on
its own well what happens if you
increase fallatin levels so it inhibits
myostatin which is kind of the enzyme
sets a limit on how much muscle you can
put on so it makes it easier for your
body to put on muscle it also increases
why does it decrease with age because
the aging process is cruel and so so
many different peptides as you so you
think it's just a consequent another
element of degeneration exactly
degeneration exactly and so entropy yeah
and so if we can restore it back to your
levels your youthful levels not only
will you inhibit mil stattin which makes
it easier for your body to put on muscle
it'll also activate what's called foxo3
pathway which reduces systemic
inflammation so it has this and so we
showed in our phase one trial that
patients over the age of 60 on average
reduce their intrinsic biological age by
12 years which is actually incredible
wow that's 60 yeah and there was
actually some hyperresponders who had
biological age reduction of access of 60
years which is crazy to believe so does
that mean they're going to leave 60
years longer we don't know that yet but
they're tell probably not probably
multiple Dimensions but still but but
they T themir length which is a proxy we
also set a world record for that as well
you show Tel L increase as well in that
patient who was a hyper responder and so
we're actually applying W yeah so it's
pretty powerful it's it's as another
animal studies that have been done with
thisat and gene therapy has been around
for a while in animal studies what's it
showed with animals similar 30% 32% life
extension in in mice but actual life
extension not just the markers no
exactly life extension wow and so when
people fast I mean I know animals that
that are are starved to like 75% of
their body weight they'll live 40%
longer something like that does that
have anything to do with with um yeah
because it activates similar Pathways
which are anti-inflammatory Pathways
regenerate Pathways Pathways that help
with cell your Sines like all the
Hallmarks of Aging that we talked about
so whenever you think about any
intervention think about how is it
affecting the Hallmarks of Aging so now
we have an understanding of biology
because in physics we always had first
principles right the like Newton's Laws
like we understood first principles
right in biology we never had first
principles until recently now we
understand there are what are called
fundal
principles chronic disease and cellular
are those associated with those 10 for
agent exactly those 10 Hallmarks govern
so that gets you to that gives you a
foundation on how to interpret data and
how to figure out if an intervention is
actually going to do something for you
and so and where are you with this trial
so the phase two trial is going to start
in Spring 2024 in Canada we have
tentative approval we're just getting
the funding together to start it and so
this phase two trial is to look at fall
stat and gene therapy
is going to be randomized control TR
with the placebo group and and basically
to look at sarcopenia osteopenia and
then different inflammatory markers how
old are your CL your have anyone from
age it's going to be open to age from 30
to 80 so really interesting to see what
it does with people who are particularly
old yeah exactly and that's where it's
the most powerful but even in I mean
younger people don't need it as much but
a lot of them just do it for the gym
like I've done it on myself just for the
benefits of more energy more strength in
the gym because obviously by inhibiting
my Statin it gives you
more there to date there hasn't been any
adverse effects so wow that's that's the
beauty yeah it's been study for over
hard to believe I know it's been study
for over six years and we haven't seen
any adverse effects uh to add some
credibility to it we are backed by Peter
theel and Sam Alman those are our two
seed investors and they're both
well-known names in in the world and and
I think the reason they they backed us
is because they understand that this has
a potential to revolutionize a lot of
gen thies because if you think about it
the only other real big gene therapy
competitor is crisper right and crisper
but the problem with crisper it's yes
it's more powerful than minicircle our
technology but it also has off-site
targets so meaning it may hit it may do
something that's unintended so and
that's the risk with crisper whereas
with the minicircle vector it's not as
powerful but it's going to whatever
Vector that we want to do it's going to
do that with accuracy and that's the be
that's the beauty of this plasma Vector
Technology H well that's ridiculously
exciting it is so I wanted to also ask
ask you about um let me see I just check
my notes here too yeah tissue
engineering so we are talking about
earlier can we regrow cartilage for
example in osteitis so with the first
generation no the second generation what
we can do now is we can combine those
ipsc ms's that we're talking about
they're engineered specifically for
ostearthritis and then we can use a 3D
bio printer and we can embed them into a
scaffolding basically a scaffold and
then you can implant those arthoscopic
and then that can regrow new cartilage
uhuh scaffold the scaffold with the
embedded stem cells so that's called oh
that's the intersection of gene therapy
cell therapy and is that specific is
that specifically for carage or can you
do that with other organs no you could
do then that's that's the promise of it
right this is just the beginning of
tissue and how far is that advanced and
are you doing specifically so for
cartilage there's already trials being
done is Dr farad galak in University of
Washington he's already been done doing
trials in humans with with the similar
technology uh and then so we're we're
just starting to do our own trials with
that this year and who's we the
regenerative medicine Community okay I
see I see but but you also you have
people that you're working with who are
involved in these specific trials yes I
have my own group and we have our own
company and we have our own researchers
and scientists we're working with and
where's that company located so we have
our minicircle technology company that's
in Austin Texas that's in Austin and
then we also do research in Mexico why
in Mexico because so you can do phase
one trials a lot quicker offshore yeah
and then you can get the approvals and
move things along quickly and then we
can move onshore for the phase two so
that's kind of our strategy that's kind
of our strategy because if you just go
through traditional Health Canon FDA
it's going to take 10 to 15 years to get
anything done yeah yeah that'll just
kill you exactly so we figured out kind
of a disruptive model where we can do
phase ones quickly get our trials done
collect our patients collect our data
show our safety risks in that are there
risks in that in doing it that quickly
do you think I mean the science the
technology we're using already has
really good basic science behind it and
has lots of animal data so there's
already safety data there to and we're
not doing it without unreasonable
justification so there is mechanistic
basis for what we're doing as as well as
good safety data on animals so the next
logical step is put it in humans someone
has to do it so it's and that was the
same thing with the plasma technology it
was just we were the first ones to do it
in humans it was done in animals for a
long time but then we were the first
ones to take it into humans when did
when did that start to happen about six
years ago wow that's years yeah it took
six years of R&D to get it into
commercial product but now we have our
first commercial product and we're doing
phase two but we're also offering the
fall stat and gene therapy and approved
regions like Mexico Prosper Dubai we
have approvals in certain areas or we
can do it so do you enjoy the business
side because it sounds like you do I
enjoy helping people and creating
scalable Technologies allows me to help
more people and that's really what well
fair enough but that you know that's the
intelligent integration of the business
Vision into the into the medical
practices right is if you set up an
organization properly then you can move
faster you can do more things and you
can scale exactly I can only help so
many people one-on-one as a but if I
create Technologies and do trials that
are large scale eventually we can help
millions of people the the dream is
imagine you go to your family doctor
let's say 20 years from now and you get
these Gene therapies you get these cell
therapies and you keep every two years
and keeps you healthy and you never get
sick that's that's the world I want to
see yeah yeah where we just eradicate
chronic disease now you're going to
treat me for something tomorrow as I
understand so exactly what are you
planning to do to me well as you have
talked about publicly you have toxic
mold you've been exposed to it right and
I think in Florida that's the theory
yeah that's the theory and so what
happens with toxic mold is it kind of
hijacks your immune system and makes it
difficult for your immune system to
function properly and so what we did for
you the first time was we did
intervenous stem cells which is to help
your body to build some resiliency and
to right and that was different than the
ex Tammy did that as well but she also
did the exosome treat yes yeah because
your your your problems more systemic
and so what we're going to do now is
we're going to do what called
intervenous natural killer cells and
natural killer cells as we talked about
earlier are the cells in your innate
immune system that can kill chronic it
can kill cancer it can kill chronic
fungal infections which is kind of what
happens with mold so it's basically
giving your body the what do you make of
that sick building syndrome
literature I think it's very
underappreciated because a lot of
Physicians don't test for mold and they
have a lot of patients with chronic
illnesses that well the literature is
horrifying you know I mean I was reading
about the state of military um
accommodations across the United States
and the unbelievably high levels of mold
toxicity that military personnel are
exposed to it's absolutely horrifying in
fact you can't read it I guess it's
about as bad as the discovery that
asbest was causing cancer I mean asbest
was used everywhere all of a sudden it
was like oh oh we're killing people like
lead in gas I mean these things have
happened and there's a new theory on
cancer it's called cell suppression
Theory which and now is getting a lot of
traction is basically that the idea that
fungal spores are hijacking the cell and
preventing cell opap toos so they're
preventing the cell from functioning
properly so then they're saying that the
root cause of cancer is actually
potentially fungal infections in
addition to everything else that happens
with omic instability but but this is
one of the potential risk factors
because we get Expos we all get exposed
to funguses all the time it's part of
living in water environment most
people's immune system can deal with it
but some people's immune system can't
well especially if they're in a place
where they're being chronically exposed
to levels that they can't actually
tolerate exactly so how do we build a
resiliency in your body so you can deal
with those fungal infections we give you
the cells to do that and that's what the
natural killer cells are going to do and
eventually we' probably give you the fmt
as well so we can give you your fmt is
the fom microbial transplant because
then your body again we're strengthening
your immune system and building
resiliency for you to deal with these
chronic infections in your
body so it's all comes back to First
principles and that's the biggest I
think takeaway for people to understand
is biology is moving at this point at
this alarming Pace almost where we're
where we're understanding down to a
single
cell function how cells can operate and
Target those in make very specific
targeted int
to take this pill and hopefully
hopefully doesn't hopefully disase
doesn't right right okay so if people
are interested in the listeners are
interested in following up with such
things learning more about it what
should they
do I think scientists are the best
people to learn from unfortunately
online a lot of the people who are the
loudest aren't usually academic
scientists because they just don't get a
lot of attention so my favorite podcast
on these topics if you're interested
they're very dense but there's one
called called the stem cell podcast and
there's one called the Immunology
podcast and there are academic
scientists who are top tier who go bring
on different scientists on their show
and they talk about these different
topics and that's where I learned from
and I I think that's where you have to
go to you have to go to scientists who
are doing their hard work to make this a
possibility for patients to get access
to one day and I talk about it a lot
online I try to take that information
and disseminate it in a way where people
can understand it right because it is
complicated and there is a lot moving at
a fast pace and so my job as a clinician
scientist is to take that information
and simplify it and make it digestible
so people can access it and hopefully
give them hope that there is a brighter
future of medicine ahead of them right
all right well that's unless you have
something else you'd like to tell people
who are watching and listening that's
probably not a bad place to close off is
there something that you wanted to cover
that we didn't discuss yet I I I like to
tell the world that we're in the world
of medicine 4.0 yeah and so medicine 4.0
is essentially using cell and gene
therapy that's targeted to allow for
more longevity which means a broader
lifespan and health span where you can
do what you want and live a high quality
life so instead of just saying exercise
eat well we can use these Gene therapies
like fallatin to allow your body to get
all these benefits even if you're not
exercising of longevity and that's where
the era of medicine we're headed towards
and that's what we want to really share
with the world
H okay well thank you very much for all
the information that we walked through
today that was much appreciated and very
enjoyable and to everybody watching and
listening thank you very much for your
time and attention I'm going to talk to
Dr Khan for another half an hour on the
dailywire plus platform I think we'll go
over well some of the topics that we've
gone over already but I want to also as
I usually do on that platform delve into
the development of his interests and and
so we'll go a little further down that
road and if you want to join us there
please feel uh please feel welcome to do
so otherwise hopefully you'll tune in
again in the relatively near future and
thank you to the dailywire plus folks
for making these conversations possible
thanks again sir all right thank you you
bet you
[Music]
bet